ATRIL(1)                    General Commands Manual                   ATRIL(1)



NAME
       Atril - The MATE Document Viewer

SYNTAX
       atril [OPTIONS...] [FILES...]

DESCRIPTION
       Atril  is the official Document Viewer of the MATE Desktop Environment,
       it is a simple multi-page document viewer. It  can  display  and  print
       PostScript (PS), Encapsulated PostScript (EPS), DJVU, DVI, XPS and Por-
       table Document Format (PDF) files.

       When supported by the document, it  also  allows  searching  for  text,
       copying  text to the clipboard, hypertext navigation, and table-of-con-
       tents bookmarks.

       This manual page briefly documents the atril command.


OPTIONS
       filename(s)...
              Specifies the file to open when atril starts.  If  this  is  not
              specified, atril will start with a blank window and you may open
              a file from the menu or by using the shortcut  CTRL+O.  Multiple
              files  can be loaded if they are separated by spaces. atril also
              supports handling of remote files.

       -p, --page-label=PAGE
              Here you can specify a page label, this page will be selected in
              the document if it exists.

       -i, --page-index=NUMBER
              Here  you  can specify a page number, this page will be selected
              in the document if it exists.

       -f, --fullscreen
              Start atril in fullscreen mode. You must specify a  document  to
              start in fullscreen mode.

       -s, --presentation
              Start atril in presentation mode. You must specify a document to
              start in presentation mode.

       -w, --preview
              Start atril in preview mode. You  must  specify  a  document  to
              start in preview mode.

       --display=DISPLAY
              X display to use.

       --version
              Output version information and exit.

       -?, -h, --help
              Print standard command line options.

       --help-all
              Print all command line options.

       This program also accepts the standard GTK options.


EXAMPLES
       atril --preview ~/Desktop/stuff.ps
           Open stuff.ps from the current users desktop, in preview mode.

       atril -i 2 -s ./document.pdf
           Open  document.pdf from the current working directory, on page 2 in
           presentation mode.


BUGS
   Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at:
       http://github.com/mate-desktop/atril/issues

AUTHORS
   This Man Page has been written for the MATE Desktop Environment by:
       Adam Erdman <hekel@archlinux.info> (2014)

SEE ALSO
   Atril documentation can be found from the "Help" menu, or by  pressing  the
       F1 key.
       Further  information  may  also be available at: http://wiki.mate-desk-
       top.org/docs



MATE Desktop Environment        30 January 2014                       ATRIL(1)
