LOGGER(1)                        User Commands                       LOGGER(1)



NAME
       logger - a shell command interface to the syslog(3) system log module

SYNOPSIS
       logger [options] [message]

DESCRIPTION
       logger  makes  entries  in the system log.  It provides a shell command
       interface to the syslog(3) system log module.

OPTIONS
       -d, --udp
              Use datagram (UDP) only.  By default the connection is tried  to
              the syslog port defined in /etc/services, which is often 514.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

       -i, --id
              Log the process ID of the logger process with each line.


       -n, --server server
              Write to the specified remote syslog server instead of to
              the builtin syslog routines.  Unless --udp  or  --tcp  is
              specified, logger will first try to use UDP, but if thist
              fails a TCP connection is attempted.

       -P, --port port
              Use the specified port.

       -f, --file file
              Log the contents of the specified file.  This option can-
              not be combined with a command-line message.

       -p, --priority priority
              Enter  the message into the log with the specified prior-
              ity.  The priority may be specified numerically or  as  a
              facility.level  pair.   For  example, -p local3.info logs
              the message as informational in the local3 facility.  The
              default is user.notice.

       --prio-prefix
              Look for a syslog prefix on every line read from standard
              input.  This prefix is a  number  within  angle  brackets
              that contains both the facility and the level.  This dec-
              imal prefix is constructed by multiplying the facility by
              8   and  then  adding  the  level.   Thus,  for  example,
              local0.info, facility=16 and level=6, becomes <134>.

              If the prefix contains no facility, the facility defaults
              to  what is specified by the -p option.  Similarly, if no
              prefix is provided, the line is logged using the -p  pri-
              ority.

              This option doesn't affect a command-line message.

       -s, --stderr
              Output  the  message  to standard error as well as to the
              system log.

       -T, --tcp
              Use stream (TCP) only.   By  default  the  connection  is
              tried  to  the syslog-conn port defined in /etc/services,
              which is often 601.

       -t, --tag tag
              Mark every line to be logged with the specified tag.

       -u, --socket socket
              Write to the specified socket instead of to  the  builtin
              syslog routines.

       --journald [file]
              Write  systemd  journal  entry.   The  entry is read from
              stdin or input file.  Each new line  must  begin  with  a
              field  that is accepted by journald, see systemd.journal-
              fields(7) for details.  Use of MESSAGE_ID field is gener-
              ally good idea, as they make finding entries easy.

              $ printf "%s\n%s\n%s\n" MESSAGE_ID=86184c3b1aa444f58ebe7b30fec1438b DOGS=bark "CARAVAN=goes on" | logger --journald
              $ logger --journald=entry.txt

              Notice  that  --journald  will  ignore  values  of  other
              options, such as priority.  If priority is needed it must
              be within input, and use PRIORITY field.  The simple exe-
              cution of journalctl will  display  MESSAGE  field.   Use
              journalctl  --output  json-pretty  to  see  rest  of  the
              fields.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       --     End the argument list.  This is to allow the  message  to
              start with a hyphen (-).

       message
              Write  this message to the log; if not specified, and the
              -f flag is not provided, standard input is logged.

       The logger utility exits 0  on  success,  and  >0  if  an  error
       occurs.

       Valid  facility names are: auth, authpriv (for security informa-
       tion of a sensitive nature), cron, daemon, ftp, kern  (can't  be
       generated  from user process), lpr, mail, news, security (depre-
       cated     synonym     for     auth), syslog, user, uucp,     and
       local0 to local7, inclusive.

       Valid  level  names  are:  alert, crit, debug, emerg, err, error
       (deprecated synonym  for  err), info, notice, panic  (deprecated
       synonym  for emerg), warning, warn (deprecated synonym for warn-
       ing).  For the priority order and  intended  purposes  of  these
       levels, see syslog(3).

EXAMPLES
       logger System rebooted
       logger -p local0.notice -t HOSTIDM -f /dev/idmc
       logger -n loghost.example.com System rebooted

SEE ALSO
       syslog(3), syslogd(8), journalctl(1), systemd.journal-fields(7)

STANDARDS
       The logger command is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2")
       compatible.

AVAILABILITY
       The logger command is part of  the  util-linux  package  and  is
       available  from  Linux  Kernel Archive <ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub
       /linux/utils/util-linux/>.



util-linux                        April 2013                         LOGGER(1)
