MACHINECTL(1)                     machinectl                     MACHINECTL(1)



NAME
       machinectl - Control the systemd machine manager

SYNOPSIS
       machinectl [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND} [NAME...]

DESCRIPTION
       machinectl may be used to introspect and control the state of the
       systemd(1) virtual machine and container registration manager systemd-
       machined.service(8).

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -p, --property=
           When showing machine properties, limit the output to certain
           properties as specified by the argument. If not specified, all set
           properties are shown. The argument should be a property name, such
           as "Name". If specified more than once, all properties with the
           specified names are shown.

       -a, --all
           When showing machine properties, show all properties regardless of
           whether they are set or not.

       -l, --full
           Do not ellipsize process tree entries.

       --kill-who=
           When used with kill, choose which processes to kill. Must be one of
           leader, or all to select whether to kill only the leader process of
           the machine or all processes of the machine. If omitted, defaults
           to all.

       -s, --signal=
           When used with kill, choose which signal to send to selected
           processes. Must be one of the well-known signal specifiers, such as
           SIGTERM, SIGINT or SIGSTOP. If omitted, defaults to SIGTERM.

       --no-legend
           Do not print the legend, i.e. the column headers and the footer.

       -H, --host=
           Execute the operation remotely. Specify a hostname, or a username
           and hostname separated by "@", to connect to. The hostname may
           optionally be suffixed by a container name, separated by ":", which
           connects directly to a specific container on the specified host.
           This will use SSH to talk to the remote machine manager instance.
           Container names may be enumerated with machinectl -H HOST.

       -M, --machine=
           Execute operation on a local container. Specify a container name to
           connect to.

       -h, --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       --version
           Print a short version string and exit.

       --no-pager
           Do not pipe output into a pager.

       The following commands are understood:

       list
           List currently running virtual machines and containers.

       status ID...
           Show terse runtime status information about one or more virtual
           machines and containers. This function is intended to generate
           human-readable output. If you are looking for computer-parsable
           output, use show instead.

       show ID...
           Show properties of one or more registered virtual machines or
           containers or the manager itself. If no argument is specified,
           properties of the manager will be shown. If an ID is specified,
           properties of this virtual machine or container are shown. By
           default, empty properties are suppressed. Use --all to show those
           too. To select specific properties to show, use --property=. This
           command is intended to be used whenever computer-parsable output is
           required. Use status if you are looking for formatted
           human-readable output.

       login ID
           Open a terminal login session to a container. This will create a
           TTY connection to a specific container and asks for the execution
           of a getty on it. Note that this is only supported for containers
           running systemd(1) as init system.

       reboot ID...
           Reboot one or more containers. This will trigger a reboot by
           sending SIGINT to the container's init process, which is roughly
           equivalent to pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on a non-containerized system,
           and is compatible with containers running any init system.

       poweroff ID...
           Power off one or more containers. This will trigger a reboot by
           sending SIGRTMIN+4 to the container's init process, which causes
           systemd-compatible init systems to shut down cleanly. This
           operation does not work on containers that do not run a
           systemd(1)-compatible init system, such as sysvinit.

       kill ID...
           Send a signal to one or more processes of the virtual machine or
           container. This means processes as seen by the host, not the
           processes inside the virtual machine or container. Use --kill-who=
           to select which process to kill. Use --signal= to select the signal
           to send.

       terminate ID...
           Terminates a virtual machine or container. This kills all processes
           of the virtual machine or container and deallocates all resources
           attached to that instance.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

ENVIRONMENT
       $SYSTEMD_PAGER
           Pager to use when --no-pager is not given; overrides $PAGER.
           Setting this to an empty string or the value "cat" is equivalent to
           passing --no-pager.

       $SYSTEMD_LESS
           Override the default options passed to less ("FRSXMK").

SEE ALSO
       systemd-machined.service(8), systemd-nspawn(1), systemd.special(7)



systemd 215                                                      MACHINECTL(1)
