OCAMLCP(1)                  General Commands Manual                 OCAMLCP(1)



NAME
       ocamlcp, ocamloptp - The OCaml profiling compilers


SYNOPSIS
       ocamlcp [ ocamlc options ] [ -P flags ] filename ...

       ocamloptp [ ocamlopt options ] [ -P flags ] filename ...


DESCRIPTION
       The  ocamlcp  and  ocamloptp  commands  are front-ends to ocamlc(1) and
       ocamlopt(1) that instrument the source code, adding code to record  how
       many  times  functions  are called, branches of conditionals are taken,
       etc.  Execution of instrumented code produces an execution  profile  in
       the file ocamlprof.dump, which can be read using ocamlprof(1).

       ocamlcp  accepts  the same arguments and options as ocamlc(1) and ocam-
       loptp accepts the same arguments and options as ocamlopt(1).  There  is
       only one exception: in both cases, the -pp option is not supported.  If
       you need to preprocess your source files, you will have to do it  sepa-
       rately before calling ocamlcp or ocamloptp.


OPTIONS
       In  addition to the ocamlc(1) or ocamlopt(1) options, ocamlcp and ocam-
       loptp accept one option to control the kind of  profiling  information,
       the  -P letters option. The letters indicate which parts of the program
       should be profiled:

       a      all options

       f      function calls : a count point is set at the beginning  of  each
              function body

       i      if ... then ... else: count points are set in both then and else
              branches

       l      while, for loops: a count point is set at the beginning  of  the
              loop body

       m      match  branches:  a  count  point is set at the beginning of the
              body of each branch of a pattern-matching

       t      try ... with branches: a count point is set at the beginning  of
              the body of each branch of an exception catcher


       For  instance,  compiling with ocamlcp -P film profiles function calls,
       if ... then ... else ..., loops, and pattern matching.

       Calling ocamlcp(1) or ocamloptp(1) without the -P  option  defaults  to
       -P fm,  meaning  that only function calls and pattern matching are pro-
       filed.

       Note: for compatibility with previous versions, ocamlcp(1) also accepts
       the option -p with the same argument and meaning as -P.


SEE ALSO
       ocamlc(1), ocamlopt(1), ocamlprof(1).
       The OCaml user's manual, chapter "Profiling".



                                                                    OCAMLCP(1)
