OCAMLDEBUG(1)               General Commands Manual              OCAMLDEBUG(1)



NAME
       ocamldebug - the OCaml source-level replay debugger.

SYNOPSIS
       ocamldebug [ options ] program [ arguments ]

DESCRIPTION
       ocamldebug is the OCaml source-level replay debugger.

       Before  the  debugger  can  be  used,  the program must be compiled and
       linked with the -g option: all .cmo and .cma files that are part of the
       program  should  have  been  created  with  ocamlc -g, and they must be
       linked together with ocamlc -g.

       Compiling with -g entails no penalty on the running time  of  programs:
       object  files  and bytecode executable files are bigger and take longer
       to produce, but the executable files run at exactly the same  speed  as
       if they had been compiled without -g.


OPTIONS
       A  summary  of options are included below.  For a complete description,
       see the html documentation in the ocaml-doc package.

       -c count
              Set the maximum number of  simultaneously  live  checkpoints  to
              count.

       -cd dir
              Run the debugger program from the working directory dir, instead
              of the current working directory. (See also the cd command.)

       -emacs Tell the debugger it is executed under Emacs.   (See  The  OCaml
              user's  manual  for information on how to run the debugger under
              Emacs.)

       -I directory
              Add directory to the list of  directories  searched  for  source
              files and compiled files.  (See also the directory command.)

       -s socket
              Use  socket for communicating with the debugged program. See the
              description of the command set socket in The OCaml user's manual
              for the format of socket.

       -version
              Print version string and exit.

       -vnum  Print short version number and exit.

       -help or --help
              Display a short usage summary and exit.

SEE ALSO
       ocamlc(1)
       The OCaml user's manual, chapter "The debugger".

AUTHOR
       This  manual  page  was written by Sven LUTHER <luther@debian.org>, for
       the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).



                                                                 OCAMLDEBUG(1)
