putty(1)                       PuTTY tool suite                       putty(1)



NAME
       putty - GUI SSH, Telnet and Rlogin client for X

SYNOPSIS
       putty [ options ] [ host ]

DESCRIPTION
       putty  is  a  graphical  SSH,  Telnet  and Rlogin client for X. It is a
       direct port of the Windows SSH client of the same name.

OPTIONS
       The command-line options supported by putty are:

       --display display-name
              Specify the X display on which to open putty. (Note this  option
              has a double minus sign, even though none of the others do. This
              is because this option is supplied automatically by GTK. Sorry.)

       -fn font-name
              Specify the font to use for normal text displayed in the  termi-
              nal.

       -fb font-name
              Specify the font to use for bold text displayed in the terminal.
              If the BoldAsColour resource is set to  1  (the  default),  bold
              text will be displayed in different colours instead of a differ-
              ent font, so this option will be ignored. If BoldAsColour is set
              to  0  or 2 and you do not specify a bold font, putty will over-
              print the normal font to make it look bolder.

       -fw font-name
              Specify the font to use for double-width  characters  (typically
              Chinese, Japanese and Korean text) displayed in the terminal.

       -fwb font-name
              Specify  the font to use for bold double-width characters (typi-
              cally Chinese, Japanese and Korean text). Like -fb, this will be
              ignored unless the BoldAsColour resource is set to 0 or 2.

       -geometry geometry
              Specify  the  size of the terminal, in rows and columns of text.
              See X(7) for more information on the syntax of geometry specifi-
              cations.

       -sl lines
              Specify the number of lines of scrollback to save off the top of
              the terminal.

       -fg colour
              Specify the foreground colour to use for normal text.

       -bg colour
              Specify the background colour to use for normal text.

       -bfg colour
              Specify the foreground colour to  use  for  bold  text,  if  the
              BoldAsColour resource is set to 1 (the default) or 2.

       -bbg colour
              Specify  the  foreground  colour  to  use for bold reverse-video
              text, if the BoldAsColour resource is set to 1 (the default)  or
              2.  (This  colour  is best thought of as the bold version of the
              background colour; so it only appears when text is displayed  in
              the background colour.)

       -cfg colour
              Specify  the  foreground  colour  to use for text covered by the
              cursor.

       -cbg colour
              Specify the background colour to use for  text  covered  by  the
              cursor. In other words, this is the main colour of the cursor.

       -title title
              Specify  the  initial title of the terminal window. (This can be
              changed under control of the server.)

       -sb- or +sb
              Tells putty not to display a scroll bar.

       -sb    Tells putty to display a scroll bar: this  is  the  opposite  of
              -sb-. This is the default option: you will probably only need to
              specify it explicitly if you have changed the default using  the
              ScrollBar resource.

       -log filename
              This option makes putty log all the terminal output to a file as
              well as displaying it in the terminal.

       -cs charset
              This option specifies the character set in  which  putty  should
              assume the session is operating. This character set will be used
              to interpret all the data received from  the  session,  and  all
              input  you  type or paste into putty will be converted into this
              character set before being sent to the session.

              Any character set name which is valid in a MIME header (and sup-
              ported   by   putty)   should   be   valid  here  (examples  are
              `ISO-8859-1', `windows-1252' or `UTF-8').  Also,  any  character
              encoding  which is valid in an X logical font description should
              be valid (`ibm-cp437', for example).

              putty's default behaviour is to use the same character  encoding
              as  its primary font. If you supply a Unicode (iso10646-1) font,
              it will default to the UTF-8 character set.

              Character set names are case-insensitive.

       -nethack
              Tells putty to enable NetHack keypad mode, in which the  numeric
              keypad  generates  the  NetHack  hjklyubn  direction  keys. This
              enables you to play NetHack with the numeric keypad without hav-
              ing  to use the NetHack number_pad option (which requires you to
              press `n' before any repeat count). So you  can  move  with  the
              numeric  keypad,  and enter repeat counts with the normal number
              keys.

       -help, --help
              Display a message summarizing the available options.

       -pgpfp Display the fingerprints of the PuTTY PGP Master Keys, to aid in
              verifying new files released by the PuTTY team.

       -load session
              Load  a  saved  session  by name. This allows you to run a saved
              session straight from the command  line  without  having  to  go
              through the configuration box first.

       -ssh, -telnet, -rlogin, -raw, -serial
              Select the protocol putty will use to make the connection.

       -l username
              Specify the username to use when logging in to the server.

       -L [srcaddr:]srcport:desthost:destport
              Set   up   a  local  port  forwarding:  listen  on  srcport  (or
              srcaddr:srcport if specified), and forward any connections  over
              the SSH connection to the destination address desthost:destport.
              Only works in SSH.

       -R [srcaddr:]srcport:desthost:destport
              Set up a remote port forwarding: ask the SSH server to listen on
              srcport  (or  srcaddr:srcport  if specified), and to forward any
              connections back over the SSH connection where the  client  will
              pass  them on to the destination address desthost:destport. Only
              works in SSH.

       -D [srcaddr:]srcport
              Set up dynamic port forwarding. The client  listens  on  srcport
              (or  srcaddr:srcport  if  specified),  and  implements  a  SOCKS
              server. So you can point SOCKS-aware applications at  this  port
              and they will automatically use the SSH connection to tunnel all
              their connections. Only works in SSH.

       -P port
              Specify the port to connect to the server on.

       -A, -a Enable (-A) or disable (-a) SSH agent forwarding. Currently this
              only works with OpenSSH and SSH-1.

       -X, -x Enable (-X) or disable (-x) X11 forwarding.

       -T, -t Enable  (-t) or disable (-T) the allocation of a pseudo-terminal
              at the server end.

       -C     Enable zlib-style compression on the connection.

       -1, -2 Select SSH protocol version 1 or 2.

       -i keyfile
              Specify a private key file to use for authentication. For  SSH-2
              keys,  this key file must be in PuTTY's format, not OpenSSH's or
              anyone else's.

       -sercfg configuration-string
              Specify the configuration parameters for  the  serial  port,  in
              -serial  mode.  configuration-string should be a comma-separated
              list of configuration parameters as follows:

              o      Any single digit from 5 to 9  sets  the  number  of  data
                     bits.

              o      `1', `1.5' or `2' sets the number of stop bits.

              o      Any other numeric string is interpreted as a baud rate.

              o      A  single lower-case letter specifies the parity: `n' for
                     none, `o' for odd, `e' for even, `m' for mark and `s' for
                     space.

              o      A  single  upper-case  letter specifies the flow control:
                     `N' for none, `X' for XON/XOFF, `R' for RTS/CTS  and  `D'
                     for DSR/DTR.

SAVED SESSIONS
       Saved  sessions  are  stored  in a .putty/sessions subdirectory in your
       home directory.

MORE INFORMATION
       For more information on PuTTY, it's probably best to go and look at the
       manual on the web page:

       http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

BUGS
       This man page isn't terribly complete.



PuTTY tool suite                  2004-03-24                          putty(1)
